Next I will briefly discuss the various color options when working in  some of the video modes available in 16 bit.

Okay first thing let me grab my path here. Alright, 
and go to my Command Prompt
CD path

OK I'll look at my snippets here for a sec.

Alright. So I got that. Here's another thing 
you can do. Lemme copy this first.

Copy, Paste,
and then go Space && Space,

and then put the other command there.
Enter. Like that. Okay

Save that. And then I'm gonna copy all of
this together, and now it should do both.

Bada boom! There. Compiles it and executes...
and runs it to the emulator. 

Very nice little timesaver. 
A couple of keystrokes, we do two things in one command. 
We're not making major changes. 
Even if we did and there was an error, I believe it would just report back the error from NASM and not proceed to QEMU.
So that's a nice little shortcut to use.

Alright, moving right along here. Where is
our file? Here. Let's get this out of the way. There is our file.

So we got some values here. 
Mystery values.
Move a value into C register what does that do?. 
I don't know.

What if we changed this to 8?

Save that. Go over here. 
Up Arrow, Enter.

Oh! OK. We got 8 hearts. Nice. 
OK, or I could do 1000.

hmm, nice. Sweet.

So clearly that is our...

(set that back to 1for now)

Quantity

yeah OK what if I... let's say, what if
I change this to a 2 here. Save that.

Oh! That must be the little endian we've been
hearing so much about. OK cool. 

So then that means

let's see

This must be a value
associated with our character, huh? Nice. 
Okay and then like so what about this
one then? If I change this to say, 14...


Ah! You see our computer supports Asian characters as well! Nice. 
So clearly that has something to do with the color.

Color Value. There we go. 
Of course it's a value, but we don't make value judgments.
You know, we do accept all kinds here. 
Okay, so whatever trips your trigger. 

There are some limited color options available here.
I'll talk about that next here so...

Let me just save that and here's what I'll do. 
I will Save As now
and we'll go to Lessons and here I'm gonna call this 
02_happy.asm

Nice, and then go back to our original test file.

Here we go. Start working from there.
Now

dealing with 16...
well here I'll show you.
Here is our color chart here.

hmm

Down here. This is our color palette essentially. 
Here expressed as hexadecimal

but you could use the number zero through
fifteen.
Yeah same either way and that's all we have.
Here the highest being 15 which, 
hang on. Let me just minimize. There.

So if I went to 16 here, let's see what happens.

Hmm, OK. 
So some interesting blue there.
Let me see here. 
What if I go

64. I dunno.

Hmm, OK. So what is happening here now is

We have a black character 
with a red background.
We are changing the background color.
And just to solve the mystery here. 
What is technically going on, 
if I may go back to our color charts here...

here you see the 01 02 03 04 right? For each of the 16 colors.
But if the 0 was also one of these symbols that would change the background color. So taking that on board, if I wanted the background of our black character to be this color I would change to C. Let me see if my prediction it is true.
In hex hang on hang on hang on
I'm working in decimal here 
but let me just get the full picture here.
It would be

background C and what color character do we want? Let's make it green. So C A. 
Let's see what happens if I write that in hex here.

So that would be

$CA

Save that.

What did I do? $

Oh! It's beginning with a character.
 I think I have to put that one in there. Let's find out if that fixes it.

Sure enough. There you go. See?

Salmon colored background and our alien.

There you go. So there. You can play around with those various color values in that mode.

OK. So another thing 
Let me just go right back to where it was

You see there's a bunch of text and stuff up here.

We can get rid of that. We want to clear the screen.
And the way to do that first let

me just set this back to fifteen i guess for
no good and none the way to do that is up

here at the top
top though

pinkerton

into the x register and

move

a x

i'm going to assume it's two values but i
can move them all together by using word

so it's it's is like zero zirp in the first
bite and reserve three in the second bite

but we can rate them both at the same time
with this little shortcut i'm not going to

go off into

indian land again

word and of course some here we called an
interrupt which basically is to do it and

so we're going to do the same thing here

well let's just say that

and whoops

here as you can see have locked up the screen
i have to hit to control all g to get outta

there and then i can alter four to get back
out there let's see what we got

there we have cleared the screen and we have
our will happy character there no say and

so let us continue on here

now that have done that here let me let me
just

kimi or b tab

let me go or control alt f for fullscreen
okay this is as if the this was all that is

running on your computer and filling the entire
screen right okay so

i may get to ot at four out of there and know
what i'd like to do

of course this is a decimal value it could
also be like hacks that way okay but i'm going

to use

one three hex value okay here which is a different
screen video mode

let's see what happens here

okay and if i blow it up you see the character
is larger now we have changed the screen resolution

to three twenty by two hundred from not mistaken
and saw the me get out of there

the default of course was three right so what
we did a moment ago was here

we're going to see

set the video mode

there and then down here

we're going to call an interrupt

call interrupts to sixteen which basically
is saying to do it right and in this instance

sir since we are have just called the video
mode and when we say do it that has the effect

of clearing the screen

they're nice so i again let me just say that
head over here

so that's the default

this size screen mode

three let's figure out what that is so if
i go over here to my web reference video modes

here

three in hex is the same as three in decimal

eighty by twenty five characters sixteen colors
and of course it sir this is european so instead

of colors it's colors rate but a maximum sixteen
colors as i showed you here

also referred to as four bit mode you say

now if we go to

thing and

where in

when we go to

this video mode

a problem that jumping around too much sure
what is it thirteen h three twenty by two

hundred i gotta blow the screen up a little
bit oh look at this two hundred and fifty

six colors instead of sixteen who okay that's
about tops we can do in sixteen bit you know

sir

that's why the list is rather short here and
so it goes back to the early days you know

as ica there are all these different companies
were making their video cards and you know

oh well here i can use a the same command
but if you're using are mediocre it does a

higher screen rez or

supports more colors or has more characters
or whatever other

each to get their competitive edge they are
all owned by the same handful of people searches

moot point so here we go

video color yours screen so there we have
set our video mode now too

the higher resolution no we have more colors
available so instead of only having our sixteen

colors we now have two hundred and fifty six
colors who are and the way this is gonna work

and

basically here looker are going down this
row that your first

row is your first number say one two and volleyball
zero and then however many go over this way

will be your second digit right so let's say
if i wanted this blue here it would be three

seven in hex

okay so now that we're into fifty six color
mode let's see if that works

so color wherein

higher screen resolution what i say to this

dollar three seven should do it let's see

back to my prompt

there you see

so you can play around with those colors now
you know and and nuts even less discriminatory

you can pick the color whatever color character
you want

good to go on that now i

so let me

just set that back here for a moment and clean
this up a little bit here i guess get out

of here

ok so oliver and

lines of code are marked individually so we
no longer have to be so vague here

very nice

looking good just set us back to fifteen for
the moment and

extra return at the end just to be kind of
neat

okay looking good ash will save the one last
time and i'm going to have a look at that

there and will go control alt f for fullscreen
again this is a like i said if there was nothing

on your computer no operating system or anything
this is a fully running program with a bootloader

and you could run this on your computer come
to think of it

why don't we do that next