In this segment I am going to introduce what is sometimes referred to as a Teletype Function.

So here instead of 9
I'm just going to change this to 14.

Teletype Function

0E in Hex.

Alright? And let's see, what do we got here?
Let's just run it and find out.

NASM that. 
OK. We got our happy character in there. We could also...

Before whereas we could put
a different value here for quantity, 
this is no longer used in our Teletype Function and is obsolete. 
So we're going to say bye bye to MOV CX for the time being. 
We can bring it back later for other purposes. 
But for now that is gone. Otherwise we may actually get some unexpected results.

I should probably mention here.
Before, you know, where I'm kind of changing everything into decimal values. I'm kind of fond of that. 
But here I did the opposite.
I went to a Hex value without saying why. 
Well, maybe the reason was kind of obvious.
Because all the references are in Hex, you know. 
And there's only a few numbers, you know.
So you kind of just learn to recognize that 13H is your 256 color mode, right? Whatever works for you, you know. 
If we wanted to change that value to decimal. There. Could just as easily have been that. And since we're not using a bunch of different video modes 
There. You know 19 is the is the good one with all the colors. There you go.

So here we now have this
Teletype Function and...

If I wanted to draw more than one now it works a little bit differently. You can add characters one after another.
So I could just call... Copy that.

There INT 16 
Call the Interrupt a second time. All of the data is still in the registers.

And there. It calls the character and prints it a second time. 
So you could do that as many times as you want.
You could now change the attributes. Here the character here. Attribute is a value of 2.
But I could just go in here and INC that value.

Increment AL by 1. 
And let's see what that does. NASM.
There. So the computer loves that. 
So if I change say, this value here to...
Instead of a 2 make it 72. Like that, you know.

And run that.
Oh! Computer says "HI". How sweet.

The reason being: I put the value 72, which is the explicit value for "H". 
And then when I incremented it by one it went to... 
It turned the 72 into 73 which is the proceeding value "I". Very nice.

So instead of just Incrementing
you could also Decrement. 
DEC decrement.
Like that. ""G". So we'd get the H G on the screen.
Or I could just change the value entirely. 
I'm gonna just grab all that. Copy here.
And we'll just work our way gradually toward that inevitable Hello World tutorial, I guess. One up, Enter.

There we go. "HE".
So I could also even change another attribute
such as the color while I'm at it. 
So here, we'll just maybe change this to a 4 and Save that.

One up,

There. And it changes the color value of just the one character. 
The other one was already sent to the teletype with it's color value. 
We've sent another. So then what happens if we know... 
Here, I'm going to copy that

but remove the color value and we'll just make that our "L" shall we? 
Save that.
What happens?

It retains that color value. 
It's still in the Register and was taken advantage of when we called the Interrupt. 
Ah! Interesting.
OK so

Let me just lose our color value again for the moment. 
And we know the "L" is already in there.
So that means I should just be able to 
CTRL ALT Drag that.
Save that.

There.

There we go.

There's our story. And of course you know we have to... 
I don't want to have to go on my YouTube videos and mark that this is unsafe for the rugrats, you know. So we can't leave it in it's current state. Why don't we just return this back to

INC AL
Yeah AL.

Oh I see what I did. I hit Caps Lock. AL.
Alright, there.

I'm going to just Save that
and look at one more final time.

"HI".
Nice.

OK, so now

Got something I'm happy with here.
Let me just Save As.

And we'll go to our Lessons folder and call this
03_Teletype.asm

Oh oh!

Don't have to say .asm
Because here it already recognizes it. 
Notepad++
You have options here, you know. 
And if it's already ASM I don't have to add that in there. 
It'll do it for me. Nice.
Sweet! OK. 
That is our Teletype which we can use for some more things in upcoming tutorials.