So I reckon I've made my point.
Let's get outta here. 
Let's see if we can set it into motion next.
First thing we want to do is 
set up a draw loop, I guess you'd call it.
Well that's what I'm gonna call it. draw_loop 
Some people would call this "main", I guess.
Colon there and then 
Copy that. And down here
just JMP to our draw_loop 
OK so you know, we had characters just sitting there before. Let's see what we got now. 
Great! Now it's still sitting there. Only now it's sitting there at a hundred thousand frames per second, I guess. Or whatever the refresh rate is of your operating system technically or video card. I dunno.
But no motion. 
In order to do that we want to probably update it a little bit. 
Let's see if we can move the pixel one place to the right. 
Right in here. I'm going to write in here with INC DI 
that should do something
Let's have a ponder 
over yonder. Oh! Well that's something. The entire screen went white. Can anybody guess why? 
Well we have our point
pixel started animating and it just kept going on and on and on until it reached the end and then flipped back to zero. 
I did say earlier in the Teletype (video)
that when the computer got up to 255 and then it flipped over to 0 in 16 Bit. Well, technically it's more like 65,000, you know. 
But it only went from 0 to 255 printable characters, you know. 
Here this is in an endless loop and shows endlessly printing pixels to fill the screen. 
Let's try and bring that to a stop if we can.

And to do that I'm going to introduce a new Jump Command, I reckon. 
I'm going to say
JAE here 
Jump if Equal or Greater, I guess.
And we're gonna want to jump to somewhere. I guess we want to jumped down here.
And we'll just call this 
end_animation:
There. 
Colon to make it a label. There. So I can just 
CTLR ALT Drag that there.
Doing it that way there you don't have any spelling errors. Copy. I always like to Copy and Paste my variable names and stuff. 
So let's see what we've got now.
End the loop. 
End animation. But first we need to tell it when to end the animation. 
So we are incrementing DI
and we want to stop at a certain point. 
So in order to do that we're going to tell it a value. 
We're going to compare the value of DI
to a number that we specify. 
I want it to go to the middle of the screen or start in the middle of the screen 
once it's reached the middle of the screen. So that'll be what? 320 
Wait, I got it up here on here don't I? I'll just copy all this... 
No no. I'm sorry I got a little confused. I'm going to the end of the screen. 
I'll make it stop one short of the end of the screen. 
I'm sorry I was looking at the wrong spot in my notes. 
hundred there. 200 - 1
There, yeah. OK so what's going to happen now, 
as you know your Jump Command will look at the last calculation 
and here we have done a comparison with our Index Position. Our character's position. 
Compared it to whatever number, huge value it is in the middle of the screen. 
OK and when that happens we're going to jump out of the draw loop to here and end the animation, I guess. OK, let's save that. Head over here and see if my prophecy comes true. 
Yeah, there.
So that's exactly what happened. 
It went all the way down to here
except the very last pixel 
just so you could tell for sure it didn't go off the screen, right? OK so we have demonstrated control.
Let's see how much further we can control it. 
It is in fact animating now, you know. It actually was going "yeeeeerrrm" all the way down to there. It was just doing it so blindingly fast that you didn't see any motion.

Let's next adjust the timing in the next video here.