So you know you go on the internet, you grab some bits of code here and they're poorly commented. 
So you're like "OK what does this do?"
Well good way to find out is just turn it off and see what breaks, I guess.
Got to Save here first. Go over there... 
Ah, nothing broke.
So I don't even know why I have that in there. 
Maybe just some bit of code I copied.
If anything breaks I can always put it back. 
Some little bit that had something to do with something else. 
I distill all of this down into the least amount of code possible. Yeah. 
OK. So I believe I said in an earlier video here that there wasn't a single command to just clear the entire screen. 
That's not entirely correct.
Let me demonstrate one here. 
I'll go all the way up to here
and just delete all that for the time being. 
OK so it's a string operation.
REP STOSB

Yeah that should fill the video memory
with the color specified. 
So we'll want to specify a color
Let's see. 
So I'm going to MOV into AL
0x03 
which I'm sure just 3 will do just fine.
Let's see. Oh, and we have to tell it to how many times to repeat.
So we're going to use our traditional counter. Into there,
since it's the entire screen, 
we want to calculate the entire screen.
MOV CX 320 * 200 like that. Uh huh, and let's see. And we want to tell it to start at the beginning too. 
So XOR DI 
DI Let's see what happens. I'm just going to Save that. 
yeah
okay 
I am hitting Enter here. Why is it not entering?
There. Have to hit Enter twice. OK. 
There. We have cleared the entire screen the color blue which we have set here. 
Color 3.
So you know I could change that to something else

Whoops, I did the booboo there.
CTRL ALT G then ALT F4 
What do we got? Yeah that's another color, see?
Let me just go back to 3 here 
but I'm going to take this.
Copy this whole thing 
and then Undo a bit till I get back to where we were before. 
There, that's the whole thing. So we can therefore put 
up here before the Draw Loop
I'm going to clear the screen here. 
Paste. 
Save that. Have a look.
Ah, we cleared the screen. 
Hang on here.
Where's our animation though? 
Let me guess.
I'm reusing DI here 
oops. I'm gonna Copy this
and then right down here clear it again.

There's our animation 
but the pixel is still clearing the screen in the old background color here. 
So where do we set that background mouse color?
3 
There.
Animated pixel on a background. 
OK but we cleared the screen outside of the
draw loop there. So observe here...

So where do we set that background Mask Color?
3 
There. Animated pixel on a background.
OK. But we cleared the screen outside the Draw Loop.
So observe there 
Here we put a value into CX, yeah? But we never decrease CX see? 
This function, whatever you want to call it, automatically looks in CX and does the counting for you.
You just have to have a value in there. 
So that is built in. 
OK, so that is Clear Screen
Ah, I see where made a slight error here. 
I didn't need to XOR DI a second time there.
I just needed to set... 
I should've pasted this above that.
So it would be like that. 
There. I don't think I need this either.
Let's try that. 
Yeah. Starts from the initial position,
animates against the background.

There you go.