Next I'd like to define a Subroutine.
Let me just simplify some of this. 
Let's come up with a reason to have a Subroutine.
Let's say I want to print a character. 
Whoops, I'm sorry. Should be MOV.
MOVing a value into AL to print. Character Value.

Right?
OK.

So let's say I got a bunch of code here. 
Right? And it calculates something and then it prints this value out to the screen, using this Teletype.
OK, and then later on in the program I got a bunch more code here.
Down here saying 
that prints out a 3, you know, and
down here later on in my program 
even more code and... whatever. It prints uh, 85. OK, so you can see 
right away there's a lot of redundant code going on in here. 
We're doing the same thing over and over.

The only thing different is the value of the character, right? 
So essentially anytime you do anything 
over and over in programming there is probably an easier way.

So the way we're going to do this
is to define a Subroutine. 
Like in in this part what we do is we print it.
Yeah, right? OK, so to turn this into a Subroutine is relatively simple.
We're just going to turn it into a name 
and much like the Label
whoops. Colon. 
Just like a Label we'll tell it that this is a place you can jump to, right? 
But we're going to do it a little bit differently.
So like here instead of Jump 
we call it.
call print_it 
See? Enter and it just types it for you.
And then so now it'll jump down here, right? 
And then we want it to return back to wherever we left off. So you go RET. 
There. Like that. OK, so now we can call print_it here 
and 
print_it here. Well I could just let it flow through in this case. See? Um... Yeah that's exactly what would happen.
Except I don't know if RET would throw it. 
So let's just do it right.
We'll call the Subroutine here. 
And then to prevent the program from going chug chug chug, getting to the end of this, and then continuing and doing something down here, we just make a little roadblock. 
We'll put a HLT command here. There.
So there. That's the end of program here. 
So now you can jump out, run the Subroutine, return back to your code. 
Let's just see if it does it's thing shall we?
There.

Good to go.
So that is Subroutines. ☺