OK. Push, push, push. Pop pop pop.
Of course we could have done this been in a loop. 
Not critical for the lesson.
Cleaning things up a little here. 
I'm going to just.. 
Get rid of stuff I don't really need for the lesson here. 
Not gonna need to offset the printable number either. 
Just to verify everything works.
There's our little alternate happy guy. 
This time though instead of printing that character 
I want to print it's actual numerical value
kinda quick there. 
There's our 1.
Now I'd like to set it up with a condition where I'm going to check a value.
First let me put a value into AX 
yeah
of 1, right? And then I want to check whether that is a 1 or 0 and then print it out accordingly down here. 
So I'm gonna kind of create a little condition. I'm not using the Stack here any longer either. 
Here basically we just load 1.
I could use a Label but 
I'll just comment that.
load_one There. So here's my Condition, right? 
It's in there. But I want to check it.
So first thing I can do is do a Compare. 
CMP AX
I'm gonna compare it to zero. 
Okay? And then if it is zero
In the past we did Jump Not Zero. right? 
This time Jump if it IS Zero.
Were going to skip over 
load_one and
go to load_zero 
which we haven't made yet. But that's easy enough.
I'll just copy drag that down there. 
Like so. Put the semicolon in there
and down in load_zero we'll do exactly that. We will MOV
into AL the value of 0. There. 
And call print_it I guess...
Over here it should be jump over to print_it 
I'll copy that first.
Jump down to print_it 
We'll move 0. MOV and
print it. Yeah. load-zero... 
I won't need this. I'm just gonna let it flow through. 
You know, if it loads 0 it will just immediately proceed down there, right? 
Let's see if that works.
There's my "1" because I have a 1in there. 
What happens if I put a 0 in there?
Nothing at all. OK so it goes down 
Let's do this the other way then.
The way it was before 
CLI
HLT

and go print it.
after I move it in there. 
Save
Uh 15 is bad. 
Oh I see. I call print_it. I redefine the Label.

Change print_it.
print_it print_it RET 
Here MOV... Of course it's printing 0 because
that's exactly what it was. It was Null. 
See what we got
info... 15

JMP to print it. Just like that.

Thinking what I wanna do and not how I want to do it. 
There. There's my zero. OK, so if I put a 1 in here. Save that. 
There's my 1. OK, so that's a binary decision essentially. 
However of course if I put
8 in there as well 
it still gives me the 1. So it's testing for zero or non-zero, right? But good enough for our purposes here for starters.
We'll call that a Boolean Operation.