I said in an earlier video that I would start getting into Assembly probably on video number 3. But on this one I'll still be introducing some of the tools we'll be using. So you might want to skip ahead one more if you want to jump straight into Assembly. 
On my last video on BASIC I was just wrapping up the video when there was somebody at the door and I still wanted to cover one more thing, so um. A nice feature about using VICE, as I showed you earlier. The editing on the Commodore 64 is rather clunky by today's standards. So you can use any text editor to do your coding and then bring it over if you like. And what's nice about that, here I can just... Like you find some code on the Internet or something. You can just copy it off the internet and then paste it in there. Or here, ALT INSERT. So I'm gonna just hit ALT INSERT. 
Okay, now observe that there's a bunch of kind of funky looking characters, that's not what we pasted. So if this happens to you, this is because someone has written the code in all capital letters, as you may have noticed, like whatever you type.

Although I'm typing regular text, you only see the capital letters on the screen. So what people do to make it look more like the code that you're seeing on your Commodore is to put the code samples in all capital letters and this is what you get. So like if I were to hold a SHIFT key and hit the same Keys, see you get all these symbols. You know, that's the next set of characters or whatever in the computer. So that's why you're getting all this weirdness. The way to fix that, if you have an advanced text editor such as Notepad++. Most of them will have Convert Case. Okay, and I am just gonna convert that to lowercase. And now if I copy that and I'm going to go over here and go NEW and ALT INSERT there. See? Now the code looks fine. So that fixes that.
So now I can run that program... Oops! I forgot the Print command. Okay so this would be 
LIST
40 PRINT C 
Enter
Now that bit of code should be added. There it is. I can now run this program and it prints out. There. So that is running. Okay. So if you want to publish in Assembly for the Commodore 64 and you're using Visual Studio there is a plug-in or whatever you call it for Visual Studio called the Kick Assembler if that's what you're familiar with. But the code with Microsoft.... you know, they always have to Microsoftify everything. So code examples that you find are not going to be compatible with 95 percent of the other assemblers in the world you know so what I will be using is called CBM prg Studio available at this address. And you can go there to the download you know, and grab. They only have this version. Now the thing is, you may find a bunch of slightly older tutorials on YouTube or whatever and the newer version does not work quite the same as the version that you're seeing in all the videos. Now if I go over here to YouTube. A cat named TheStuffMade has a few really nice tutorial videos. Getting started with the Sprites and such and... it's called Retro Programming on the Commodore 64. And if you go to episode 2 he has been kind enough, if you click on Show More to include a link here for the older version 3.13. I could post my own download spot but I had a Dropbox once before and I posted some things for download and then a few months later they emailed me that they're canceling my account due to inactivity, you know. And I can't... I'm not messing with that, you know. I've put stuff on YouTube 20 years ago that's still up there. So as long as this link is going to last, you know you can find an older version version 3.13, which is what I'm using and everybody else seems to be using for their tutorials because um... so let's go to CBM Studio. It looks like that, and it is it's an integrated environment that will go directly to VICE. You can publish some code here and then in 3.13 if I just click the publish button like this...

yeah, and it's all in capitals so, it should automatically launch VICE and run the program. Oh, look at that. Even though it's capitals here it ran it. So CBM prg Studio automatically converted my capital letters on the fly. Nice. Nice. Okay, this allows you to create programs in both BASIC and/or Assembly.

So anyways, in version 3.13 all you have to do is click this and it will launch the program for you. But if you download the newer version you probably have to hit build. That's this one here. And then go and save the project there and then you can launch the program and it should work. But that's just too many steps you know for development. Uh... Okay

So let me just talk about the book that I'm going to be using here. If you go to... here it is. commodore.bombjack.org/commodore/books.htm There is a wealth of 30 plus year old books, you know. For those of you that just love throwing money at something every time you want to go learn something and then never look at the books anyways, you don't need to because you know the Commodore is 40 years old and all the books were written decades ago. Yeah, and so this is a great resource. It's got all the old books. Many of them come with the software that came with the book, you know. So let's see. The book that I am going to be using... let me see if I can find it on the list here. Probably down here under Assembly

yada yada

Machine Language and Assembly Programming.
So here's the book I'm going to be using: 
Commodore 64 Assembly Language Programming. And when I looked at this previously at this other book:
Dr. Watson Computer Learning Series 
I was trying to start here, and then I happened to look at this book, and it's identical at the beginning. So this book is the newer version of this book. So I'm just gonna be using that. So most of the code samples use the assembler that came with the book which uses a slightly different language (syntax) than the assembler that I'm using. 
(CBM prg Studio). So it took a little messing around to translate between all the code samples in this book to make it compatible with CBM, but I've done that. And so I'm going to be drawing quite a bit from this book. If you wanted to download that and follow along, you can. And you can also mess around with... this comes with an assembler that also disassembles. So it takes all of the assembled code and turns it back into Assembly Language. So that's a nice little feature. There are other disassemblers around that you can get that you can use with the modern code examples as well. Okay, so this will be where my lessons will be drawn from primarily in the beginning stages. So there you go. You can grab that, if you like and, as I said lots of books on the Commodore. Ones that don't say what language it is, it means it's generally BASIC, you know. And then other ones are written for machine language and Assembly Language which is the bulk of these tutorials.
Okay?